Okay, let's dive back in and
talk about arrays in Go.
So first let's do a little comparison
between Go and JavaScript.
If you're defining an array in JavaScript,
and on line two or
establishing there's a const called
grabbag, which is currently empty.
If we did add elements into this array,
they could be strings, integers, booleans,
any combination or length of elements.
And if we're talking about Go, that line
9 in the Go box, is initializing an empty
array, and our var scores is set to a type
of float64 with five elements in it.
So the hard bracket five float64
is actually a type definition,
similar to string, boolean, etc.
But that type definition has to include
how many things are in the array,
how many elements it contains, and
exactly what type those are,
all of which have to be the same type.
So eventually, the array in Go
could only contain floats and
it could only have five elements.
So it's a pretty significant difference
when working with these two structures
between the two languages.
A really important thing to note as well
is similar to, if we were to compare
a string to an integer, Go would tell
us that those are not the same things.
If we were to compare two arrays of types
1 has five elements with a float64,
the other has six elements of a float64.
Those will come back as
two very different types,
completely different type signatures and
different allocations in memory.
So we are gonna hop over to either the Go
playground or a Go file and talk about how
these arrays get initialized,
and why they're important in Go.
So we're gonna look at line 9 and
copy this guy over into a Go file, and
just print it out as is.
So I'm gonna move over to our code editor.
I'm gonna create a new file,
Called arrays.go.
Set up my initial Go template.
And then here, I'm going to
copy over our scores array, so
it is five elements,
all of which are type float64.
If I print line scores
And run our program,
go run section 4 code arrays,
you'll see I have allocated
five elements within our array,
all of which already
have default values of 0.
And a reminder back to the beginning, when
we have a default value that's a float,
it's going to pop in a zero for
that value behind the scenes.
And so, Go is kind of setting aside enough
memory for us to eventually add values
into our array, but for
now it's putting a zero in there.
Okay, so if we wanted to find values and
populate our array,
one of the methods we could use is to
individually target each index and
then populate that value manually, which
is not an ideal way to define an array.
Instead we can use a more concise syntax
where we are establishing that we
are setting up a variable called
scores which has a type signature of
five elements of float64.
And then on the right hand side,
we can use that type signature and
then instantiate each of the new
values within curly braces.
The comma separated values within those
curly braces will be allocated to each
respective index in our array.
As we've seen with using
shorthand syntax and variables,
because we were being so
specific on the right hand side,
Go will infer that if we start with
a variable called scores and then
use a colon equal sign, it will assume we
want five floats on the right hand side.
And then a little similarly here, if we
have explicit initial values on the right,
Go can also infer that you know you
want five things in this array,
there are five things
within the curly braces.
So the dot dot dot within the higher
brackets can replace that explicit number.
Cool.
So I'm gonna hop back into the code editor
just to demonstrate that by using range,
we can iterate over this array similarly
to how we did the string example earlier.
Okay, so when we're back in our
arrays.go file, we're gonna create a for
loop to iterate over
an example of an array.
So we have our var scores,
which is set to five elements of float64.
Which we can refactor to just have scores,
and then set that equal
to An array of values.
I'm gonna use an arbitrary array of
values for this particular example.
So I'm just going to do 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
And then our for loop we can say for
each index, which I'm not gonna use, and
the value of that array.
We can use the range keyword
to iterate over our scores.
And then print line value.
If we run our code here,
we'll see 1,2,3,4,5.
Had we included our index here
Without using that index, we would see,
I declared a not used error.
So to fix that, we'll make sure
to implement the underscore.